>> Jon Kuperman: The first thing that
can be a little bit difficult is like
understanding if I have a memory leak?
And that can be,
I think the easier side [LAUGH], and
then figuring out why I have a memory
leak is the much harder side.
And I will give the caveat here that
while I don't have any great ideas for
improvements, I think that finding
the specific cause of a memory leak.
In Chrome DevTools is one of the most
difficult workflows remaining today where
it can be very easy to
discover that you have one.
And it can be very challenging to discover
what application code because all
that they give you via gives you
access to low level things allocated.
But it doesn't always say this comes from
this react component, like drawing that
line can be very challenging still, and
we'll get into that with the exercise.
But a few cool things, one that I love,
which is technically outside of
the Chrome DevTool scope, but
it is part of the Chromium tooling,
is you can go to the hamburger menu.
And then you can go to More Tools, and
then you can go to Task Manager, and
that will open this kind of cool task
manager that's just based on each browser
tab that you have open,
also some extensions, things like that.
And you can sort that over here.
I think actually,
it might not be a default.
You might have to right click and
add JavaScript memory, but
if you do so,
you can sort that in descending order, and
you can not only see which one of
your tabs is using the most memory.
But you can watch it for
a minute while it's in a steady state.
You would not expect any of
these tabs to be using more and
more memory because they're
not doing anything.
So, you can just use this as a tab test
manager to kind of keep an eye on things
and see if you do, in fact,
have something that's just growing and
growing with its JavaScript memory usage.
I just think that's a cool, yeah,
quite easy to use cool thing.
Another thing that you can do,
going back into here,
is when you do a performance audit,
like we had just done in the last session,
you can click Memory here, and it'll
keep track of memory over time as well.
So, if I hit record on that, I make some
divs or whatever the button does, and
then I hit Stop on that.
I'll not only get access to
all that great JavaScript, so
let me hide this for a second.
All that great kind of stuff
that we saw in the last session,
where we're seeing all the JavaScript code
that gets called and things like that.
But I'll also get this really nice
chart down here that will show up.
This shows how much memory is used and
what is using it.
So, whether it's regular JavaScript heat,
whether its document bits being created,
whether it's nodes, like DOM nodes, event
listeners, or anything in the GPU memory.
Again, this isn't going to help you, or
it isn't going to get you to the line
of code that's leaking memory.
But it is gonna give you a really good
understanding if you run your app over
time or if you have a memory leak or not.
So, one example is when you're
looking at patterns like
using memory is never a problem.
That's what we do as
application developers.
We use memory, but
we ought to be releasing our memory.
And so, you ought to see these kind of
shapes where you use a bunch of memory and
then you release a bunch of memory.
And like in an ideal world, your app at
any state, and you do something and you go
back to that state should use an identical
amount of memory before and after.
Right now, you may leave some things
around that are helper methods.
If it gets called again, you may cache so
there might be differences.
But what you don't want to see is like,
what we call like the sawtooth,
like where it's growing up and
up and up and up over time.
This would indicate that you have some
kind of leak where you use, use 100 and
you then you return 20,
and then you use 100, and
then you return 20, something like that.
You're getting into something where
there's probably a lot of stuff being
retained that is unintentional.
So, one first place I like to go
is that More Tools Task Manager,
see if your memory's growing.
The next place that I like to
go is this Performance tab.
Click Memory, let your app be in steady
state for a little bit, and look for
anything that's obviously growing.
So here it does look like for
the most part in this one we're using and
then releasing back down again.
However, I do imagine on a lot of people,
especially complex applications,
if you do your first performance analysis,
you'll often find memory leaks or
something being retained and
not given back.